# AutoIt Graphical Interface for the 5d chess datainterface

This AutoIt script allows you to convert Portable Game Notation (PGN) files into chess variants. It provides a graphical user interface (GUI) for loading PGN files, selecting specific moves, and automatically adding the variant to the JSON file while also starting them using the data interface. While also giving quick and easy access to the other options the data interface provides.

## Features

**PGN Import & Clipboard Loader**
  - Load and parse PGN directly from clipboard or files.
  - now also works with variants created via https://adri326.github.io/5dchess-designer/ 

**Variant JSON Management**
  - Add, delete, or overwrite variants in `JsonVariants.json`.
  - Interface to validate JSON structure before saving.
    
**Recording Integration**
  - Works with `5d chess game recorder+`.(pm me on discord to setup)
  - Start/stop recording from the GUI.
  - Automatically loads game files generated by the recorder.

**Other DataInterface Options**
  - Setting indiviual timers in formats that are more than just seconds
  - Setting the timetravel animation option
  - Restarting the Game if it crashes

## Prerequisites

- Steam game: `5Dchess with multiverse time travel`
- any 5d chess pgn reader or files.
- ghxx datainterface console to make something with the variants.

## Getting Started

1. Download the `gui for DataInterface` from Releases and start it.
2. A GUI will appear, allowing you to interact with the script's functionalities.
3. CLick on Data Interface to select a file within the datainterface folder you wanna use.
     - if it doesnt find the files it expects within the folder it will throw an error
4. Once thats setup you can test it by starting clicking on run interface
5. The Main functionality of the Gui is of course the PGN and FEN Converter
     - You can simply copy the FEN (important that atleast [Board] is within) or a full PGN
     - You can also click on OPEN and select a .txt in 5dpgn format (with the moves below the FEN, or ust the FEN)
6. Now just click on Clipboard or Load, and the red text unloaded should turn green and show Loaded.
     - when you have a file selected you can also setup the exact move that shall be the last one that gets loaded
8. once Loaded and a Datainterface setup, the add variant button becomes active and you can simply add the variant to the end.
9. Now just click on run interface if its closed again, then on run variant, and join a game. if no error pops up (try again then) it loads you directly into your selected variant.

## Extra functions.

 - By clicking on edit entry you can directly edit the variant as the JSON object. like if you opened up the file in notepad.
     - The first and simplest use is of course to easily copy the variant for simple sharing.
     - with the save button you can also save the edited entry, with the add button it will append as a new entry (like what add variant would have done)
 - Setup recording game for now needs a special recording software that translates a little between the gui and the normal 5dpgnrecorder (ask me via discord pm if you really want it)
 - when the interface is running you can also change the timers or the timetravel animation option within the gui
 - There is at the end of the line an empty checkbox, that is if you want the gui to restart the game immediatly if its crashes.
   
## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please open an issue, submit a pull request or simply write me on discord.

## Acknowledgments

The AutoIt Chess Variant Converter script was inspired by the need to automate the conversion process for PGN files into chess variants. 
Special thanks to:
  - the AutoIt community for their support and contributions.
  - 5dchess variant designers that creates FENS of the variants (https://adri326.github.io/5dchess-designer/)
  - GHXX Data Interface ("https://github.com/GHXX/FiveDChessDataInterface")
  - and the pgn recorders from various members of the 5d community:
    - Tesseract/Penteract: https://github.com/penteract/5D-PGN-Recorder
    - Crazy: https://github.com/CrazyPenguin0111/5D-PGN-Recorder
    - NKID00: https://github.com/NKID00/5DChessRecorderCrossplatform/

## Disclaimer

This script is provided as-is without any warranty. Use it at your own risk.
